Software Engineering
====================

* [[Agile]]
* [[CV]]
* [[Code Review]]
* [[Project Management]]
* [[rfc]]
* [[testing]]
* [[Software Industry]]
* [[Technical Dept]]
* [[hypothesis-driven-development]]
* [[job-applications]]

Consider ideas about industry software engineering.
Could be combined with the notes in my blog repo?

I was looking at case studies for [[telematry]] and was thinking of practical uses

* [Dev Concepts](https://dev-concepts.dev/) Book (pre-order)



* [What I’ve Learned in 45 Years in the Software Industry](https://www.bti360.com/what-ive-learned-in-45-years-in-the-software-industry/)

* [What Silicon Valley "Gets" about Software Engineers that Traditional Companies Do Not](https://blog.pragmaticengineer.com/what-silicon-valley-gets-right-on-software-engineers/)
    * > "SV-like" companies think of engineers as value generators, and creative problem solvers. Traditional companies think of them as factory workers.
    1. Autonomy for software engineers
        * > The expectation from developers at traditional companies is to complete assigned work. At SV-like companies, it's to solve problems that the business has.
    2. Curious problem solvers, not mindless resources
        * > In practice, a motivated engineer easily makes multiple times the impact of a "factory worker" who is just told what to do
    3. Internal data, code, and documentation transparency
    4. Exposure to the business and to business metrics
        * > In contrast, traditional companies often make it impossible for developers to interact with the rest of the business
    5. Engineer-to-engineer comms over triangle-communication
        * > Traditional companies will encourage hierarchical communication
    6. Investing in a less frustrating developer experience
        * > While it might sound counter-intuitive to hire software engineers who only focus on other software engineers working faster: at many places, it's not. It's a great return that helps these companies move faster, and developers stay happier.
    7. Higher leverage --> higher {autonomy, pay}



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Agile]: agile.md "Agile"
[CV]: cv.md "Carrers and Resume"
[Code Review]: code-review.md "Code Review"
[Project Management]: project-management.md "Project Management"
[rfc]: rfc.md "rfc"
[testing]: testing.md "Testing"
[Software Industry]: software-Industry.md "Software Industry"
[Technical Dept]: technical-dept.md "Technical Dept"
[hypothesis-driven-development]: hypothesis-driven-development.md "Hypothesis Driven Development"
[job-applications]: job-applications.md "Job Applications and Interviews"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"