Frameworks
==========

* [Honeypot](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCsUalyRg43M8D60mtHe6YcA) 
    * YouTube documentaries for languages and frameworks


* [[web-frameworks]]



* [How WhatsApp served 1 billion users with only 50 engineers.](https://www.quastor.org/p/how-whatsapp-scaled-to-1-billion)
    * See section titled "How to learn new programming [[languages]] and [[frameworks]] quickly"
        * [This](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=28017289) is an interesting discussion on Hacker News for a process to learn new things quickly.
        * Here are some of the top answers summarized.
            * For a new programming language, there are a couple of standard things you should try to implement.
            * [[learning-to-code]]
            * Write several programs where you
                * Read/write to a file
                * Turn a structured object into JSON
                * Parse JSON into an object
                * A basic script that can be run from the CLI, parses flags/args, reads stdin
                * Send a HTTP request
                * Implement a very basic web server
            * When you’re doing these exercises, do not copy/paste any code.
            * You should be typing out the code yourself.
            * Try to bias towards reading (blogs, documentation, code, books, etc.) over watching video tutorials. Reading is a lot faster than watching video and you can be far more efficient with your time.
            * A 3 step process for learning new frameworks is to divide it up into a week’s work (10 - 15 hour total commitment)
                * Prepare - Spend 1 hour Monday through Thursday reading documentation, books, and watching content. This way you’ll have time to sleep on the concepts.
                * Plan - On Friday, spend 1 hour preparing a small project idea for the weekend that will use all the concepts you learned over the week.
                * Project - Spend 4 - 6 hours building the project over the weekend.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[web-frameworks]: web-frameworks.md "Web Frameworks"
[languages]: languages.md "Languages"
[frameworks]: frameworks.md "Frameworks"
[learning-to-code]: learning-to-code.md "Learning Programming"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"